# Submission for the Labs Open Finance Bounties

## Project Name

Blockchain Reward Incentivized Browsing (BIB)

## Project Summary

**Problem Statement**
At present, websites push out adverts indiscriminatively by using banner ads, malicious scripts and intrusive-in-your-face adverts – introduced a series of issues for users, publishers, and advertisers and created some inefficiencies in the online marketplace.

**BIB (Blockchain Reward Incentivised Browsing) as the Solution**
By having an active opt-in Reward Platform on the blockchain, the browser can block off these trackers and institute adblockers to prevent such intrusion. With this, the user experience can be enhanced and speed is also increased significantly.

**Key Objectives**
BIB seeks to enhance the overall user browsing experience, improve the user privacy, enhance the means to target users and deliver ads whilst incentivizing users for online advert browsing and rewarding users’ attention

**Major Advantages of the BIB blockchain-based Solution In Online Advertising**

**Ultimate transparency**
Every change made on the blockchain ledger becomes public. It is verified, approved and seen by all members. Such openness of the network and peer support adds accountability and builds trust.

**Immutability**
Once a blockchain node is created, its data cannot be modified retroactively without the alteration of all consecutive blocks. It is only possible if the majority of members agrees to change the ledger simultaneously. Each transaction must be approved by most of the participants in order to be bundled into the ledger.

**No third-party intermediaries**
Blockchain-based transactions allow direct exchange of digital and physical assets between parties. This dramatically reduced or even eliminates the counterparty risks and allows partners to save up on transaction fees.

**Enhanced data quality**
Blockchain data is consistent, complete, accurate, updated, verified and widely available.

**Distributed nature**
BIB runs on the network of computers. If one unit fails or an error occurs, the digital data would not be lost, because it is replicated on thousands of other computers. There is no need for lost data restoring or backup solutions since the data is decentralized and never stored in one place
.
**Cybersecurity**
Transactions in blockchain are associated with unique "keys" - strings of numbers that define the user and that user’s digital wallet. Cryptography is used to secure a user’s private key and offer full control of the identity and transaction history.

**Real-time transactions**
While bank transactions take a day or two, blockchain transactions allow instant payments.

**Fighting Ad Fraud**
BIB has a potential to eliminate the growing discrepancies between what advertisers are paying for and what they actually get. With blockchain-based transactions, media buyers can easily track the number of impressions that are being delivered and verify whether those ads were targeted to the right audiences and served in the right place and at the right time.

Since all members of the blockchain network are approved and verified by other participants, bad actors and cybercriminals have no chances to get into the system. Therefore, every impression you buy comes from an authenticated publisher with a validated domain. This technology allows minimizing such fraudulent activities as bot traffic, domain spoofing, pixel stuffing, and ad stacking. Read more about inventory fraud here.

**Enhancing Viewability**
Modern blockchain solutions provide comprehensive tools to trail campaign’s performance metrics related to how much was spent, who viewed the ad, what were the engagement and conversion rates. Such precision is beneficial for brand safety since advertisers can always be sure their ads appear in reputable places only.

Finally, BIB provides enhanced viewability tracker tools. Media buyers can be 100% sure that the ads they are paying for are viewed by real audiences. They simply don’t get billed for the impressions that were served in the places that are not available for the human eye or generated by bots. Read more about ad viewability here.

**Data management and user privacy**
BIB blockchain ledger contains data that comes with complete security. All members of this peer-to-peer network can access and review information on who did what, when and how. This complete transaction history from the day one is replicated all over the blockchain ledger, approved by all participants and secured by the latest cryptography.

With such levels of public security, strangers and cybercriminals have zero ability to access the data, copy it or hack it. Transaction information is secured and protected by all members of the chain. Every ledger gets a unique public key in the block, which is then distributed all over the participating nodes with links to previous and following blocks. Data leakage or data theft is impossible because blockchain networks have no single point of failure.

The Solution Architecture: BIB (Blockchain Reward Incentivised Browsing)

It uses an Active Opt-In Registration System for both the Publishers who owns websites and Users who browse various websites.

Publishers can sign-up by downloading the BIB Program Package via BIB BRAIN nerve center’s website, and fill in its preferences of the types of adverts the Publisher wishes to sell its site’s real estate for. Upon approval by BIB Brain Nerve Center, the Publisher will be informed it is authorized to participate in BIB’s Active Opt-In Program.

For the User, he or she can download the BIB Program Package and sign up by giving his personal identifying data (that is in compliance to GDPR and other data privacy regulations in force), his or her preferences and demographic details. Upon approval, the User will be able to create the BIB Blockchain Wallet. User will then be authorized to participate in BIB’s Active-Opt-In Program.

When User next browse on a BIB’s approved Publisher site, the BIB Program Package will prompt the User that he will be served a targeted ad from an Advertiser that the Publisher preferred, which was pre-set in the Publisher’s Preferences when he registered for approval to participate in BIB.

BIB Program Package eliminates Ad Fraud. It ensures Targeted Ads are served. It incentivised the User to view the Ad, as User will be rewarded for his ‘viewing effort’.

Typically, most Adverts served will be short, like 7 seconds. For longer Adverts, the User can change his Ad Preferences as and when he or she so wishes.

**Getting Rid of The Middleman**
With BIB’s Active Opt-In mechanism for both Publishers and Users, whereby Publisher’s Ad Preferences and Users’ Profile and Demographics are matched against Campaign Parameters set up by the Advertiser, the Advertiser can be assured it is expending its campaign budget to pay their targeted audience directly to view their ads — skipping the ad buy process altogether. One Forrester analyst estimated that publishers removing middlemen could increase their CPM from $1 to $5. BIB can do even better, with its Active Opt-In Ecosystem, because it streamlined the supply chain and provides true transparency and efficiency.

Using BIB’s “Active Opt-In”, Advertisers will vie for actual audience “attention” — not just imprints or impressions. And they’ll be able to prove they’ve gotten that attention before the Reward is given. BIB’s technology implementation allow advertisers to pay based on “viewing effort” by the person viewing the ad. That means smarter spending — and connecting — with potential customers.

**BIB’s Revenue-Reward Model**
The business revenue model is kept simple and straight forward, as BIB’s mission is to eradicate the inefficiencies, complexities and opaqueness of the present Online-Advertising ecosystem.

For every successful clickthrough from either a banner Ad or completed 7 seconds view of a video or textual-image Ad or its hybrid format, the User will receive 80% of the Value of the Ad, as determined by the Advertiser and agreed to by the Publisher in his Ad Preference panel. For the Publisher, he will receive 20% of the Value of the Ad.This apportioning percentage will be fine-tuned as BIB evolves and gather sufficient feedback from the clickthrough rate, viewing rate and other variables, like participation rate of Publishers and Users over a period of monitoring by BIB BRAIN nerve center.

When an Advertiser initiates with the BIB BRAIN Nerve Center to launch a campaign, it will be quoted a budget based on the type of Ad and the duration of the campaign. BIB BRAIN will be paid upfront an agreed percentage of the campaign budget agreed upon and the reminder of the budget will be shared between the Publishers and Users on an 80/20 share based on measurable User’s attention to the Ad.

BIB BRAIN will keep in reserve a portion of its profit margin, for use at a later date as Market Maker war-chest when the BIB token is listed on the Exchange(s).

**Unit of Reward**
The unit of Reward will be tokenised. The BIB token will be a customized utility token BIB that is pegged 1:1 with the USD and can be traded based on demand and supply when the token is listed on the Exchange(s).

The BIB token can be converted back to fiat USD currency or continue to circulate in the BIB ecosystem by way of exchanging it for goods and services on designated eCommerce marketplaces, or it could be offered up as a donation to supported charities. This expanded utility of the BIB token ensures the vibrancy of its adoption and the BIB ecosystem community.

**BIB’s Forecasted Revenue:**

Potential Market Share of the Global Online Advertising Revenue

Using \$327.28 billion in 2019 as the Global Revenue baseline

Source: https://www.emarketer.com/content/global-ad-spending-update

Discounting off 61.2% of Revenue Share taken by Google, Facebook and AliBaba

The Revenue Potential adjusted is 38.8%.

That is \$126.98 billion

BIB’s Revenue:[ Forecasted ]

1st Year: 1% = $ 1.27 million			4th Year:   25% = $ 31.75 million

2nd Year: 5% = $ 6.35 million			5th Year   35% = $ 44.43 million

3rd Year: 15% = \$ 19.05 million

Above Revenue figures is discounting the annual growth of the industry, which is in the region of 17.1% conservatively, as the global online advertising market is growing exponentially year on year.

There is also a clear potential for BIB to collaborate with Google, Facebook and AliBaba to expand market share into their individual strongholds, as BIB solution is cross browser, cross platform and incentivises all parties (Advertisers, Publishers, Users) to come on board BIB and to streamline the online advertising supply chain to deliver win-win-win-win solution to all parties.

**Payout system**
BIB does not plan to hit the exchanges until it reaches 1,000,000 validated users, however it is important to provide liquidity for its users. BIB token holders will be able to cash out their tokens in the form of USD fiat money (other cryptocurrencies will be supported later). The payout can be requested, when the user collected over 1000 BIB tokens. BIB tokens has a 1:1 peg to USD. User can leave the accumulated tokens in the wallet to purchase products and services in the eCommerce marketplaces, to donate to charities

**Summary Conclusion**
The mission of BIB is to build up a community of users, who are rewarded for their interactions and will be able to monetize their time and attention, that they are spending on watching ads. At the same time, Advertisers can deliver more effective campaigns and Publishers can scale their inventories and revenues. BIB offers a win-win-win-win solution for all relevant stakeholders (Advertisers, Publishers, Users and BIB Brain) in the Online Advertising eco-space..

## Project Team

List each team member, along with the below fields

- Team members Name
- Team member email
- OK to contact about future hackathons?

```json
[
  {
    "name": "Justin Ong",
    "email": "zip2justin@gmail.com",
    "constactAboutFutureHackathons": "Yes"
  },
  {
    "name": "Wendy Yong",
    "email": "wendy.yzm@gmail.com",
    "constactAboutFutureHackathons": "Yes"
  },
  {
    "name": "Jit Ooi",
    "email": "iki.jito@gmail.com",
    "constactAboutFutureHackathons": "Yes"
  }
]
```

## Project Advisor(s)

Sotirios Seridis

## Link to Ancillary Material

If some of your material cannot be uploaded to GitHub (ie. Google Slides, a pitch on Youtube, a metrics dashboard on BareMetrics), list it here!
BIB-CONSENSYS-Project Summary_v1.2.brief.pdf+
https://youtu.be/M4oli2h5_RI

- **Pitch Deck:**
- **Video Demo:**
- **Demo URL:**

## Project Launch Page
